# Dependency Inversion Principal (DIP)

- What does it sound like though? Are you familiar with the dependency in the first place? If yes, think about what Dependecny Inversion by definition sounds like. If not, dependencies are like modules, a chunk of code that do something, is brought into your code from other part of the world(Application or external source). Like `import {something} from '@something'` from JavaScript land and using that code to do something together with your code.

## Here’s the core idea of DIP:

- High-level modules (e.g., your business logic) should not depend on low-level modules (e.g., database access code).

- Both should depend on **abstractions** (interfaces or abstract classes).

- Abstractions should not depend on details.

- Details (implementations) should depend on **abstractions**.

**NOTE** How many times abstractions are mentioned? You have already practiced abstractions from the four horseman of OOP - Encapsulation,Inheritence, Polymorphism, Abstraction. So, it should not be anything new to you.

By theory, all of this kind of confusing. Tbh, the very first thing confusing to me is what the hell is a _high-level_ and low _level modules_?

💡 What is high-level and low-level modules in a codebase?

- (awaiting answers)

## Active Recall

Just remember the follwoing when it comes down to DIP -

- Instead of directly instantiating dependencies in your classes, you design your code such that:

- You depend on interfaces or abstractions, not concrete implementations.
  Concrete classes implement those interfaces and are "injected" into your class, often using **Dependency Injection (DI)**.

💡 What is Dependency Injection(DI) though?

- (awaiting answers)

## Analogy - 1 (Real world scenario)

### Refer to the 5.DIP.php for the code

Let's take power socket on the wall for an example.
In your house, you have many devices and electornic appliances. Imagine that without any engineering principals and standards, how many wall sockets you would have to have in your house for each and every device. For instance, A socket for your phone charger, a socket for your laptop charger, a socket for your toaster, a socket for a rocket (Duh, just rhymes that's why),and so on.

Instead what is established? A socket does not need to know who is coming and who is it for (concrete implementation) rather the socket knows the kind of shape (interfaces or abstraction) it supports and don't care about the devices and their internal impelementation.

## Analogy -2 (Software based Scenario)

### Refer to the 5.DIP.php for the code

In an webapp, we rely on the emails and email marketing platforms.
Imagine you have a class `EmailManager` that manages email and their services. You have two email services -

1. Mailchimp
2. MailerLite

#### Bad Code Example

So, in your `EmailManager` you instantiate these two services inside the class constructor and write two separate methods to send emails from two separate channels. (Bad Code - Violates DIP)

#### Good Code Example

Instead of instantiating the email services directly in your code. You make an interface which sends email and create two separate classess for each services and implements the interface. Then you inject the..oh hec, lets look at the code. Go to the code `5.DIP.php`.
